Adds runbook for the alert PrometheusRuleFailures (#101)
openshift/runbooks: alerts/cluster-monitoring-operator/PrometheusRuleFailures.md

# PrometheusRuleFailures

## Meaning

The `PrometheusRuleFailures` alert triggers when there has been

> a constant increase in failed evaluations of prometheus rules for more 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
a constant increase in failed evaluations of Prometheus rules for more 
```

than 15 minutes.

## Impact

> Metrics and alerts might be missing or inaccurate.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Recorded metrics and alerts might be missing or inaccurate.
```

## Diagnosis

1. Determine whether the alert has triggered for the instance of Prometheus used
for default cluster monitoring or for the instance that monitors user-defined
projects by viewing the alert message's `namespace` label: the namespace for
default cluster monitoring is `openshift-monitoring`; the namespace for user
workload monitoring is `openshift-user-workload-monitoring`.

> 1. Review the logs for the affected Prometheus instance:

Reviewer: I haven't checked in details but the alert might contain labels that could help identify the faulty rule.

Author: At least looking at the alert definition on Prometheus it didn't seem like that was the case, not sure if I might be missing something else.

Reviewer 2: @JoaoBraveCoding I made a few suggested changes to the language. PTAL when you get a chance and lmk if you have any questions. Sorry for my delayed response!

    ```console
    $ NAMESPACE='<value of namespace label from alert>'

    $ oc -n $NAMESPACE logs -l 'app=prometheus' | grep -o 'Evaluating rule failed.*' | sort | uniq -c | sort -n
    level=error ... msg="Evaluating rule failed." ...
    ```

> 1. It's also possible to evaluate the rule expression using the OpenShift UI, or maybe using PromLens to help debug expression issues.

Reviewer: not sure if we want to mention PromLens

## Mitigation

> If the logs indicate a syntax or other configuration error, correct the

Reviewer: it might not be possible for the user to fix the error if the rule is shipped by an OpenShift component. In this case, the user needs to open a support case and eventually the buggy expression will be fixed.

# PrometheusRuleFailures

## Meaning

The `PrometheusRuleFailures` alert triggers when there has been
a constant increase in failed evaluations of Prometheus rules for more
than 15 minutes.

## Impact

Recorded metrics and alerts might be missing or inaccurate.

## Diagnosis

1. Determine whether the alert has triggered for the instance of Prometheus used
for default cluster monitoring or for the instance that monitors user-defined
projects by viewing the alert message's `namespace` label: the namespace for
default cluster monitoring is `openshift-monitoring`; the namespace for user
workload monitoring is `openshift-user-workload-monitoring`.

1. Review the logs for the affected Prometheus instance:

    ```console
    $ NAMESPACE='<value of namespace label from alert>'

    $ oc -n $NAMESPACE logs -l 'app=prometheus' | \
    grep -o 'Evaluating rule failed.*' | sort | uniq -c | sort -n
    level=error ... msg="Evaluating rule failed." ...
    ```

1. It's also possible to evaluate the rule expression using the OpenShift UI.

## Mitigation

> If the logs indicate a syntax or other configuration error, then if its

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If the logs indicate a syntax or other configuration error, troubleshoot the issue:
```

coming from:

- a `PrometheusRule` shiped by OpenShift, open a support case and then

> eventually the buggy expression will be fixed.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
a bug can be logged and the expression fixed.
```
